# Cardiovascular_Disease
Comparison of Ensemble Classifiers
Contents of Repository: Two IPython Notebooks; PowerPoint Presentation; Final Report

Abstract
According to the Centers for Disease Control, heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States. Patients who are aware of their susceptibility to heart disease can benefit by working with their health provider to address their medical condition in a proactive manner. In this report, we aim to develop a method to classify cardiovascular disease in a patient, as well as to compare various ensemble models to identify which approach performs best with respect to our particular dataset. We attempt to solve two classification problems: multi-class classification, where each class corresponds to a different level of heart disease; and binary-class classification, where we aim to distinguish between presence and absence of cardiovascular disease. Three ensemble models are considered, including Random Forests, AdaBoost and Extremely Randomized Trees. A decision tree model was constructed in order to serve as a baseline comparison to the ensemble models. With regard to the multi-class problem, which was highly imbalanced, accuracies for the various models ranged between 57% and 60%. Sensitivity was high for the majority class (Class 0, which corresponds to no heart disease), but relatively low for all other classes. With regard to the binary-class problem, which was more balanced, accuracies for the various models ranged between 80% and 83%. Additionally, sensitivity improved substantially compare to the multi-class problem. Paired t-tests identified that the accuracy between the baseline decision tree and each of the ensemble models was statistically the same, indicating that a complex ensemble model was necessarily not required for this dataset.
